Document uncertainty feature (#277)
neuropoly/ivado-medical-imaging: docs/source/technical_features.md

# Technical features

> * [Physic informed network](#physic-informed-network)

Reviewer: i don't think a "manual" TOC is necessary because a TOC will automatically be generated on the right (RTD theme)-- the problem of a manual TOC is maintenance

Author: Agree ++, removed!

* [Uncertainty measures](#uncertainty-measures)
* [Two step training scheme with class sampling](#two-steps-training-scheme-with-class-sampling)
* [MixUp](#mixup)
* [Data augmentation on lesion labels](#data-augmentation-on-lesion-labels)
* [Network architectures](#network-architectures)
* [Loss functions](#loss-functions)

> ## Physic informed network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Physics-informed network
```

CNNs can be modulated, at each layer, using the [Feature-wise Linear Modulation (FiLM)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1709.07871.pdf) technique. FiLM permits to add priors during training/inference
based on the imaging physics (e.g. acquisition parameters), thereby improving the
performance of the output segmentations.

![Figure FiLM](https://github.com/neuropoly/ivado-medical-imaging/raw/master/images/film_figure.png)

## Uncertainty measures
At inference time, uncertainty can be estimated via two ways:

> - model-based uncertainty (epistemic) based on [Monte Carlo Dropout](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.02142.pdf).

Reviewer: from Joseph's comment to link to citation, not pdf
```suggestion
- model-based uncertainty (epistemic) based on [Monte Carlo Dropout](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.02142).
```

- image-based uncertainty (aleatoric) [based on test-time augmentation](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2019.01.103).

From the Monte Carlo samples, different measures of uncertainty can be derived:
- voxel-wise entropy
- structure-wise intersection over union
- structure-wise coefficient of variation
- structure-wise averaged voxel-wise uncertainty within the structure

> These measures can be used to perform some [post-processing](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1808.01200.pdf) based on the uncertainty measures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These measures can be used to perform some [post-processing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1808.01200) based on the uncertainty measures.
```

![Figure Uncertainty](https://github.com/neuropoly/ivado-medical-imaging/raw/master/images/uncertainty_measures.png)

> ## Two steps training scheme with class sampling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Two-step training scheme with class sampling
```

![Figure mixup](https://github.com/neuropoly/ivado-medical-imaging/raw/master/images/mixup.png)

## Data augmentation on lesion labels
This data augmentation is motivated by the large inter-rater variability that is

> typical in medical image segmentation tasks. Typically, raters disagree on the boundaries

Reviewer: to avoid repetition
```suggestion
common in medical image segmentation tasks. Typically, raters disagree on the boundaries
```

![Figure Data Augmentation on lesion ground truths](https://github.com/neuropoly/ivado-medical-imaging/raw/master/images/dilate-gt.png)

## Network architectures

> - [UNet](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1505.04597.pdf), with control of the network depth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [UNet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.04597), with control of the network depth.
```

- HeMIS-UNet: integrates the [HeMIS](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.05194) strategy to deal with missing modalities within a UNet training scheme.

> - FiLMed-UNet, based on [FiLM](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1709.07871.pdf) strategy adapted to the [segmentation task](#physic-informed-network).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- FiLMed-UNet, based on [FiLM](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07871) strategy adapted to the [segmentation task](#physic-informed-network).
```

## Loss functions
- [Dice Loss](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04797). Also adapted for multi-label segmentation tasks, by averaging the loss for each class.

> - [Focal Loss](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1708.02002.pdf). Additional possibility to be combined with the DiceLoss is a linear combination.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence: "Additional possibility to be combined with the DiceLoss is a linear combination.". What does it have to do with the focal loss?
```suggestion
- [Focal Loss](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.02002). Additional possibility to be combined with the DiceLoss is a linear combination.
```

> - [Generalised Dice Loss](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.03237.pdf). In particular, for cases of high class imbalance, the background volume is here accounted by a weighting of the inverse of its volume.

Reviewer: I've rephrased-- please check it's ok. 
```suggestion
- [Generalised Dice Loss](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.03237): The background volume is weighted by the inverse of its area. This loss is particularly interesting with class imbalance.
```

Author: Thanks @jcohenadad.
What I am trying to do here is to highlight an addition compared to the original paper, [new commit here](https://github.com/neuropoly/ivado-medical-imaging/pull/277/commits/c7bae270e53156f218fa7ef0bbcf367c551fa49b).

- [Dice Loss](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04797). Also adapted for multi-label segmentation tasks, by averaging the loss for each class.
- [Focal Loss](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.02002).
- Focal-Dice Loss: Linear combination of the Focal and Dice losses.

> - [Generalised Dice Loss](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.03237). Addition: the background volume can be accounted and weighted by the inverse of its area, which could be of interest with high class imbalance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Generalised Dice Loss](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.03237). An additional feature compared to the published reference, is that the background volume can be weighted by the inverse of its area, which could be of interest in high class imbalance scenarios.
```

> - [Generalised Dice Loss](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.03237). Addition: the background volume can be accounted and weighted by the inverse of its area, which could be of interest with high class imbalance.

Reviewer: are we going with US/British/Canadian/Australian English? i've seen "center" (US) and "generalised" (Brit)

Author: I would imagine US/Canadian would make sense :-)
Correcting this

Reviewer: So US then (Canadian English is closer to Britt)
